(Episode 33)
(Geoje Jeil Hospital, a certified medical institution)
Thank you for coming all the way here.
I'm Kim Su Kwon, the director.
Nice to meet you.
I'm sure you're all busy.
You didn't have to come down here to greet an old man.
Not at all. Shall we go inside?
Before we do,
there is someone I should see.
Someone you should see? Who do you mean?
It's been a long time,
Doctor Song Eun Jae.
Hello.
It must be hard for someone...
as competent as you to work at a place like this.
No, it's not.
I'm grateful that I can work here.
You're still humble as well.
I'm flattered.
Anyway,
Doosung Group is going to work with this hospital.
Let's see how we can improve this place.
I'll see you again, Doctor Song.
(Memorandum of Understanding)
(Kim Su Kwon)
(Doosung Group and Geoje Jeil Hospital)
(MOU Signing Ceremony)
(Jang Tae Joon)
They'll establish nonprofit medical foundation?
Yes.
Doosung Group and our hospital will work on it together?
That's right. We'll also establish...
a partnership with Seoul Daehan Hospital.
Why did the director decide to do this all of a sudden?
It's not sudden. He's been looking for a partner for a while.
What's the reason?
What do you think?
Is it what I think it is?
Obviously.
Is the hospital losing that much money?
The biggest cause is this ER.
I specialize in emergency medicine,
but I even suggested that we close the ER before we go bankrupt.
If we keep the ER open,
the hospital will suffer that much deficit.
But if we close it...
The patients will die on the street.
If they establish the foundation,
will they avoid having deficits?
Yes, that's likely.
What are their terms?
- Terms? - What does Doosung Group want?
It's a nonprofit foundation.
Seoul Daehan Hospital is also a nonprofit foundation,
but they try...
awfully hard to make profits.
You know that.
Doosung Group is a conglomerate. Does it make sense...
that the chairman of such company all the way here for nothing?
Maybe he's doing it to serve the community.
You're naiver than I thought.
You're more political than I thought.
I'm surprised you see it that way.
Did you...
reserve this place for me to stay?
I'm sorry, sir. I will get you to a better place.
The problem is this place is too good!
- I'm sorry? - Mr. Oh.
Yes, sir?
Do you think I'm here to enjoy spa...
and idle away my time?
Find another place now!
Right away, sir.
Can you move any slower?
I'm sorry.
How did it go?
Chief Director Jang Sung Ho finished the interview.
The article just has been released.
Let me see it.
(Remote medical service, the combination of IT and medicine)
Look at this smile on his face.
Why is he grinning like a fool?
Get your act together.
This...
is a battlefield. It's a matter of life or death.
We must push ahead with the bill...
on remote medical service before the next presidential election.
Before this bill passes through,
if someone who thinks the government should...
take care of the citizens' health in the name of universal welfare...
becomes the next president,
we won't be able to start our business on healthcare.
Director Park.
Yes, sir.
How many diabetic patients are there in Korea?
About seven million.
That's right.
There are seven million diabetic patients.
If the bill on remote medical service passes through,
and we sell one blood sugar level measuring device to each of them,
we'd earn three billion dollars at least.
Our business on healthcare...
will be the golden goose.
It will be the primary engine...
of growth for Doosung Group in the next generation.
Do you understand?
- Yes, sir. - Yes, sir.
(Remote medical service, the combination of IT and medicine)
"Remote medical service".
No way.
Doosung would want this,
but the director would never agree to this.
What do we do?
Excuse me, sir.
Yes?
What is it?
What are you going to do about the hospital ship?
I believe we should remove the disrupter...
before we start our business on the remote medical service.
They're doing a good job treating patients on their own.
I can't turn it into scrap metal overnight.
Will you just leave it then?
Are you as dumb as a fish?
I have set out baits here and there.
At least one will take the bait.
Code blue, code blue.
Code blue at NICU.
(NICU, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit)
What happened? Is this baby...
That's right. It's Ms. Hwang In Kyung's baby...
transferred from the hospital ship.
"Respiratory failure"?
Yes, she has a high fever too.
What's the cause?
It's hard to put a finger on it.
Okay.
Sure, very well.
Sir.
Did someone take the bait?
We might be able to solve the issue without getting involved.
What's wrong? Does your leg hurt?
Did I hurt it badly when I last sprained it?
It hurts sometimes.
Sit down. I'll have a look.
- It's fine. - Sit down.
Here?
I don't think it's the bone.
Of course not.
Is it a muscle ache?
You're always on your feet on the ship and in the ER.
No wonder it hurts.
Skip running for a while.
I'll give you a hot compress pack.
I don't need that.
Do as you're told.
Muscle pains need to be cured fast.
What's that look for?
You nag way too much. Almost as much as my mom.
What?
Let's go.
33 times.
That's how many times you sighed on the way back.
34 times.
Is something wrong?
It's Hwang In Kyung's baby.
What about the baby?
Respiratory failure?
What could be the cause?
I'm sure we suctioned her airways properly.
Do you think that could be the problem?
When we transferred them, there was no fever...
and the vitals were stable.
That's true.
The fact that she's premature and under 2kg...
could be the biggest reason.
I put my hand into the incubator because I wanted...
to hold her hand to tell her to be strong,
and she held my finger so tight.
The baby's trying so hard to fight.
That made me feel even smaller.
That tiny baby...
is giving all it has to fight to stay alive.
There's nothing I can do to help as a doctor.
I felt so pathetic.
I couldn't stand it.
Are you Hwang In Kyung?
I am.
Did you see your baby?
Yes.
How is she?
Who are you?
A lawyer?
- You're a lawyer? - Yes.
Why are you here?
You had a cesarean on the hospital ship.
Done by a general surgeon, not an OBGYN specialist.
Yes, that's right.
I think that disaster is...
the reason your baby is suffering.
What do you think?
[VIU Ver] Episode 33 Hospital Ship "What if I Have to Choose One?"
-= Ruo Xi =-
Why is he here?
How are you?
What brings someone of your position here?
I'm here to carry out an inspection.
An inspection?
Yes, an inspection.
Why would there be...
a sudden inspection?
You should give us some time to prepare.
To prepare? For what?
Is there something on your conscience?
Why would there be?
Then you have nothing to worry about.
Just go about your usual business.
Set things up.
Hey... What's this about?
I don't know.
Hello, sis.
Stop calling me that.
You're late.
I am. I had to make a stop.
- Hello? - Ms. Song Eun Jae?
That's me.
This is Geoje Police Station.
The police?
(Geoje Police Station)
You were reported for malpractice.
We need you to come over and give a statement.
(Geoje Police Station)
- Doctor. - Doctor Song.
Did you do a cesarean on the hospital ship?
How was the patient?
You're a liver, gallbladder, pancreas specialist.
Had you performed a cesarean before?
I want an answer. Yes or no.
- No. - It was your first time?
Do you know the patient's baby...
is in serious condition?
I do.
Don't you think...
your inexperience is the biggest cause of the child's condition?
"The hospital ship's doctor of disaster"?
How dare these media jackals blame it on her.
Shall I leave a comment telling them to do their job properly?
Nurse Pyo, what's going on?
It's so strange.
Even we didn't know Doctor Song went in to be questioned.
How do you think the reporters found out?
(Song Eun Jae, the doctor of disaster)
What's this?
Jae Geol.
Hyun, what's going on?
Do you mind if I take the call?
Keep it short.
It's me.
Where are you? The police station?
- Yes. - Why did you go alone?
Why didn't you tell me?
- I didn't need to. - Doctor Song.
I have to go.
I'll come over.
No, don't bother.
It won't change anything.
Why won't it?
See your patients. That's more important.
Do you think this is me being worried about my girlfriend?
Doctor Kwak.
Does it sound like I'm ditching my patients...
to come over?
- No, what I meant was... - Listen carefully.
Doctor Song.
I'm talking not as your boyfriend...
but as a colleague who was in the OR with you.
You shouldn't be under investigation.
If what the reporters wrote is true,
and this is about the baby we delivered,
You shouldn't be interrogated. It should be me.
I treated the baby.
From the moment she was born...
to the moment she was transferred to Jeil Hospital's NICU,
I'm the one who treated her.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
- Yes. - If the detective asks questions,
tell him exactly what I said, and finish the interview.
Okay, I'll do that.
All right.
I'll pick you up as soon as I finish work.
There are only two operations in a month.
Goodness.
Dangerous doctors are always inefficient.
Inefficient?
A doctor's annual salary is over 40,000 dollars.
Despite all the equipment, she performed only...
two operations a month. She did them for free.
How does it make sense?
Those operations saved two lives.
Or should I say three?
Do you think those lives worth only 40,000 dollars?
One of them was a mafia leader.
Isn't his life worth anything?
It doesn't matter whose life we save.
What's important is whether it's a patient or not.
Amazing.
Is it because you sail over the open sea every day?
You're such a romantic.
- Sir. - Let's see if...
the local council agrees with you.
The local council?
The head of the council filed a complaint about...
the operation of this hospital ship.
What are we?
Why are you cornering the hospital ship all of a sudden?
Who's cornering who?
To operate the city economically and efficiently,
we're trying to reduce all frivolous costs.
On top of that,
the result of the audit will be important.
What do you think, Mr. Chu?
"The Height of Inefficiency"...
"is the hospital ship"?
I told the reporter...
to include this in Song Eun Jae's article.
You're not completely incompetent.
Thank you, sir.
Can you drive any faster? The governor is waiting.
Yes, sir.
(Jurisdiction in the island area)
- Thank you. - Thank you.
The island area is selected to be a remote medical service area.
Remote medical service is necessary in areas...
such as isolated islands or villages in the mountains.
It's a necessary support system...
for those who have no access to medical care.
(Remote medical support business)
Business to support remote medical service...
is something I'd like...
to establish before I retire.
It's my last task.
All the employees at Doosung Group...
will do their best to establish...
the remote medical service system.
- Hello, sir. - Hello.
What are you doing?
It's called remote something.
- Remote medical service? - That's it.
They said that they'll start it and gave me this.
My grandson will love it, don't you think?
Let me check your blood pressure and sugar level.
Do I still have to go to the clinic if I use the remote thing?
Yes.
You need to check your blood sugar level at the clinic every day.
You also need to watch your diet.
If you don't take care of yourself, you may get diabetic shock.
It could be dangerous.
I heard that it's not necessary if I use this.
Hello, ma'am.
Please put your arm through here.
- Pull this and attach it. - I see.
- Now can you push this button? - What's going on?
- Which one? - It's the one right here.
- This? - The one next to it.
- This one? - It's the blue button.
- She won't be able to do it. - Push this one.
Come out of the frame.
- Gosh. - What did she say again?
- Good job. - That's right.
- That was correct. - Good job.
Let's move on.
- Are you done? - How is Ms. Seo Soon Ae?
- I was kicked out immediately. - Kicked out?
They were filming a promotion video for the remote medical service.
A promotion video?
After they distributed laptops to everyone,
everyone seemed so excited.
They were so grateful.
I overheard what the public clinic administrator said on my way here.
A total of 26 islands will try remote medical service.
26?
Strangely enough, all those islands...
are the islands that the hospital ship visits.
By the way,
is remote medical service even possible?
It's a system to diagnose and prescribe medicine on video.
How can it be possible?
Auscultation and physical contact with the patient...
aren't enough to eliminate possibilities of missed diagnosis.
How can we diagnose and treat patients on screen?
Right?
Like in science fiction,
doctors could be replaced by artificial intelligence.
Diagnosing and treating patients through video can't be possible.
Right?
I'm not sure, but current medicine law won't allow it either.
Have you talked to Dr. Song?
She must be under investigation.
I know she's strong,
but police can put on pressure.
She must be scared.
I'll go there as soon as possible.
Go as soon as possible, and bail her out.
I'm leaving.
The pregnant woman was brought by her mother.
I found out that the umbilical cord had prolapsed.
If ignored,
the baby loses access to oxygen.
In the worst case, the baby could die.
I had to perform an emergency operation.
- Did you explain it to her mother? - Of course.
She said that you didn't.
That can't be.
There's no operation agreement.
Did she sign the agreement?
Did she or not?
I don't think she did.
However, I explained thoroughly.
She gave a verbal agreement.
How can I believe that?
Nurse Cho Mi Yang was present at the time.
We can't trust that.
After an operation without agreement,
- you could agree on the same alibi. - Detective.
You should have asked to sign the agreement beforehand.
Isn't that the basics for a surgeon?
Tell me.
You couldn't think clearly because you've never done the operation?
What about suctioning after she was born?
You were flustered then, weren't you?
What do you want to ask?
Wasn't that why you couldn't complete the suction thoroughly?
That's why the baby is in critical condition.
That's not true.
- What do you mean? - It's unfortunate that...
the baby is in critical condition.
We can't say that the reason is simply due to the suction.
Can it be one of the reasons?
Before the investigation,
I asked for the opinions from some experts.
During the process of suction,
if substances such as feces or amniotic fluid remains in the lungs,
it could cause the baby lung problems.
Can you guarantee that there were no problems...
during the suction?
No, nothing can be guaranteed.
There may have been problems during the suction, right?
However, we can't be sure of it.
In many cases of infantile respiratory distress syndrome,
reasons are often unclear.
Sometimes we take a look at how the baby is treated afterwards.
More than anything,
Hwang In Kyung's baby...
weighs only 1.9kg. That could be the biggest reason...
Forget it.
Explain the suction process.
Pardon me?
- Explain? - After cutting the umbilical cord,
what happened during the suction process?
Explain it to me.
- That's... - What is it?
Why can't you explain?
This isn't something you should be questioned over.
I treated the baby.
From the moment she was born...
to the moment she was transferred...
to Jeil Hospital's NICU,
I'm the one who treated her.
Ms. Song Eun Jae.
Doctor Song!
Why can't you answer me?
Were you flustered while you suction as well?
Or was it...
someone else who did it?
(Episode 34 will air shortly.)